Well let's work on continuing the read typology of the character's head today.
I'm going to go ahead and come over here to the grease pencil area over on the tool shelf and click
on draw and I'd like to just extend this edge on up over the head so I'll draw one edge here.
One here let's say another here and maybe a couple of more going up over to the ear
maybe like so now that I've got that I'll press enter and then I'll go into edit mode and I'll select
these points here these edges like that point and control click.
This one just like that whole row of edges and then I'll just click add surface and there we go.
Now I'm going to take the follow down to one and I'll also turn off x rays so we don't see through it.
So I'll just drag these into the center real quick.
And remember with clipping on over here in the mirror modifier those will snap into the center.
Now one thing I'd like to do is as I extend this area back to the back of the head I would like me turn
off x.
I would like for these to come back and be evenly spaced so that when they come back to the back of
the head we don't have some polygons wider than the others but to do them I kind of need to gently expand
these here as they move toward the back.
So I think what I can do is just select these points and press shift V to slide a vertex So a press
shift and the V key and this slide the vertex over just a bit just to make things a little more even
all right that's looking pretty good.
Let's come back here to the back side again and I'll turn off the x ray and I'll begin drawing out the
edges that are going to extend down to the back of the neck.
I'm going to click the draw button again and this time I'll come down like this.
OK so I'm going to press enter it add surface take the cross down to one take the follow down to one
as well then I'll hit x ray and see how that looks like I missed one huh.
What happened here is that I didn't select this edge to extend on down.
But what I can do.
Let me just count this one two three four five.
Here's an interesting way to fix that I'm going to just going to press control r for the loop cut and
I'll do one two three four five.
I'll just do this and that should match up with that.
Yeah I know that's cheating right but I just forgot to select that edge.
So let me select these then.
And these.
And once we have these edges selected I'll press control.
And let's come down here to bridge edge loops.
So I like that and that should bridge those back together.
So the problem was is I drew out the grease pencil lines but I didn't then select what Edge was going
to be extruded.
So it just created geometry out on its own.
So now let's take a look at connecting these up around the ear.
I think what I'll do is begin with this edge and kind of come down like this and try and keep in mind
my edge is on the front so I'm willing to just go say here
and here.
And here and this one
and maybe come around like that.
Here we go.
Well enter.
Select this edge and let's see what happens at the surface.
Let's take the follow down to one.
And there we go.
Let me connect this one up here I'll move this.
And at this point in time it just begins to be a puzzle kind of how you can most efficiently arrange
these polygons So they're relatively low resolution you have relatively few of them while still maintaining
the basic shape of the character.
Let me select these four and hit the F key.
Now for this I think I'm just going to use very basic extruding just extrude these edges and move them
out around this ear see how close I can get to the actual shape of the ear.
So with that whole edge like that I'll just hit E and extrude.
Let's see what I can do.
I'm just going to move it out like this.
If you scale it a bit I'll try that again and extrude bring this up scale it ends.
And let's keep on going so I'll hit E and extrude scale this and some more
and extrude again on up to here let's say
scale this and a bit.
And one last time up here
all right.
So what I think I'll do is I'll work on this a little bit off camera and I want to pull these in.
So it matches the inside of the ear just a little bit almost like this edge and just extrude this out
to get this piece right here.
And I'll just merge these two points together with Allt em and maybe at center I think I'd also like
to extend this edge out right here.
It's like these three and extend that to their And then I'll connect these up with him and at last
I'm going to draw one more line over here like this.
Maybe lound and hear press enter.
To edge mode and maybe I'll try these edges.
Right here.
And extend those follow down to one.
I'd like to maybe take this edge and extend it down along the jaw bone.
So if I draw this along here maybe I can extend this down
to here and connect those up
like this.
Take a look at that.
So now maybe I can connect these four up like this.
So I'm going to extend this one more time so I'll go to extend this like that quick add surface follow
down to 1.
Let's see how that works so maybe we can connect this up.
I think what I will do is extend this road down one more to connect up with this.
I will do that.
So draw here and enter and let's go to edge mode.
Select that edge and extend it on down.
And then I just want to connect these up here.
I think I'm going to extend this edge under the chin one more time before I extrude the neck down.
So just draw that there and then select these points and extrude that around and connect these up.
And at last and I better bring these back into this center so they clear up.
So now what I'd like to do is begin extruding this down the neck down so I'm going to select all of
this edge here and let's just begin extruding this down.
I'm going to first of all do one quick extrusion here and bring this down.
This and maybe extrude that in or pull it in a bit
like so scale then a hair rotated a bit and will extrude down again.
That well I think we've got a pretty good start on the head here.
Right now we've got 239 faces in the object.
Once we mirror it over we'll have around 500.
That's pretty good.
We're on course here to have a good number of polygons for our character.